# Investigating Mersenne Twister PRNG Using Regression Models

#### Rationale

I wanted to test whether regression models can be trained to recover the seed used by a Mersenne Twister PRNG based on the numbers it has generated. Finding the original seed of a Mersenne Twister PRNG is a legitimate problem that can be found in various CTFs such as <a href = "https://deut-erium.github.io/2021/07/25/mersenne-seed-recovery.html">this</a>, which further emphasizes that such random number generators are not cryptographically secure despite it being computationally quick. 

#### Methodology

The MT19937 algorithm that Python uses keeps track of its internal state in 624 32-bit integers. As such, observing at least 624 of iterations allows one to predict all future iterations. We will generate some seeds randomly using a CSPRNG, and for each seed we will generate 624 32-bit integers using MT19937. The generated seeds will be split into training and testing datasets equally, and all seeds generated are unique. 

Well, well, well, *sklearn*. We meet again. I have attempted to train the model using various regression models such as Logistic Regression and Random Forest. Since the integers are randomly generated using bits, I have also considered converting the generated denary numbers into binary numbers before training the models.

#### Results and Conclusion

Regression models were utterly defeated, no matter what numbers were used and what models were trained. In fact, I kept getting a big fat zero. I am not sure why this is so; maybe the models could not find a pattern in the numbers that were generated by MT19937, but my mini experiment confirms that the numbers that PRNGs generate are indeed "random".